**Introduction**

In 2022 OpenAI launched ChatGPT, a Large Language Model (LLM) running on GPT3. Unique about this software was that it can interpret language, therefore doesn’t need keywords, has an enormous data bank to reference and can answer in coherent and informative texts (source: yt video aiwar). ChatGPT has become the fastest-growing app to date. Having surpassed the 100 million mark in January 2023, 14 months after its release (OpenAI source). The model is mostly used as a chatbot, where people ask questions, but it can also write texts, songs, poems, articles and reports that are, for the most part, indistinguishable from human-written text. Models for text generation and image generation have already won from humans in small art contests. (SOURCE). Major stakeholders in the development of LLM and Generative Artificial intelligence (GAI), are OpenAI, Google Deep Mind, Microsoft and Google. In 2023 Microsoft alone invested 10 billion USD in OpenAI alone ( https://www.nytimes.com/2023/01/23/business/microsoft-chatgpt-artificial-intelligence.html#:~:text=The%20tech%20giant%20aims%20to,with%20its%20partnership%20with%20OpenAI ). Proving to be that GAI is an incredibly powerful tool, developing at an enormous speed. It is yet to be determined what role it will play in everyday life, but there are already some first issues arising regarding integrity, impersonation and the conscience of these, and the use of, these models. 

**Explain GAI**

GAI is a collective term of AI that is able to generate content output. This output can be in the form of text, video, images and audio. The content itself is generated, or made, by the system and did not exist beforehand. Currently there are multiple popular programs, each specialized in their own output. For example OpenAI DALL-e can generate images based on text input, GPT3 can output coherent text such as songs and poems, Faceapp can edit people into media, also known as deep faking, human voice can be mimicked as well as generated such as vocaloids like Hatsune Miku.utilizing VOCALOID6 ( https://www.vocaloid.com/en/#:~:text=VOCALOID6%20is%20an%20AI%2Dbased,to%20express%20your%20vocal%20ideas.  ).  

**(should explaining LLMs be it’s own paragraph?)**

Diving a bit deeper into GAI with text output, you see a field of competing LLMs, the most popular, likes ChatGPT, Google BARD and Dalton use Natural Language Processing. Meaning that they are able to interpret human input, not relying on keywords. 

**How does it technically classify** 
From a technical viewpoint most Artificial Intelligence gain their intelligence from machine learning, way to let programs classify data.  This can be done by supervising the data set, meaning that data is labeled in predetermined classes and the assignment into said class will be done by the program. In unsupervised learning the program will have to label the data itself, and will aim to group data together in clusters. Within unsupervised learning and most relevant for this project is Deep learning, with the aim to mimick human learning by programs, by designing Neural Networks. These neural networks are part of how NLP powers the LLM that drive programs such as GPT3 and ChatGPT. 
Sources: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CMrHM8a3hqw&ab_channel=Simplilearn
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k2P_pHQDlp0&list=WL&index=8&ab_channel=KrishNaik 

**How do Neural Networks work**

Neural networks exist of layers that will move input data, though the channels of the layer towards the output layer and the classification of the data. This input is broken down and fed as a value input to the first neuron layer. Each individual neuron is connect to the next by the cannels and are multiplied by a numerical weight of importance. This sum is then transported to the next hidden layer where the bias will be determined. This activation functions helps to propagate the information forward through the network until the system will eventually classify the information based on the probability. What this means for text is that it is possible to not only to classify letters, and predict what letter should come next (think of auto-fill or auto-correct functions), but by utilizing grammar techniques it can also form sentences and stories and giving it a data bank of information to reference it is able to formulate informative sentences as well. 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bfmFfD2RIcg&ab_channel=Simplilearn 
